#summary Rules and regulations of the robot's design.
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

The following content is quoted from http://iaroc.org/rules/robot/.

= Details =

==Overview==
All robots are welcomed to participate in the Challenges of the iARoC! The majority of robots entered have been iRobot Roomba class robots which meet all the rules of the hardware and allow for a “brain” to co-exist on the robot which allows it to meet the autonomous requirements. Other types of robots have been entered such as the LEGO Mindstorms and home-built.

==Operation==

Once turned on, the robot must be autonomous, self-controlled, battery operated and self-contained without any human intervention or remote computer. That is, the robots are to be controlled by an on board computing device and not manually controlled devices. The robot cannot leave anything behind as it travels through the arena. It cannot make any marks on the floor of the arena that aid in navigation as it travels.

==Size==

The robot must be able to fit within a 60 centimeter square grid cell, which is the approximate size of the cell on the maze. The height of the robot is not to exceed 30 centimeter. If the robot has feelers to sense objects, the feelers will be counted as part of the robot’s total dimensions. Teams may add flags, hats or other purely decorative, non-functional items to the robot as long as these items do not exceed the total dimensions.

==Weight==

There are no restrictions on the weight of the robot.

==Construction Materials==

There are no restrictions on the types of materials used in the construction of the robot.

==Sensors==

There is no restriction on the type of sensors that can be used as long as they do not violate any of the other rules or regulations. Robots that use laser-based devices must take measures to prevent eye damage to team members and to observers. Teams are not allowed to place any markers, beacons or reflectors on the walls or floors to aid in the robot’s navigation.

The competition uses there infrared transmitters supplied by the iRobot Corporation. The iRobot Manual says that: the home base radiates infra red light at wavelengths greater than those of visible light, between 750 and 1000 nanometers.  IR does not pass through walls. It appears to be pulsed at around 300 Hz.

==Program Downloading==

Any program necessary must be downloaded to the robot before it is put into an arena when performing an actual task.

==Electrical Power==

The maximum electrical requirements for any system needing power prior to starting a Challenge at the arena will be 10 amps at 120 VAC, 60 Hz. Power can be used to power computers being used to work on robot, as well as other requirements such as charging batteries.

==Cables==

No fixed cables are allowed to be connected to the robots during any Challenge.

==Wireless==

No wireless communication TO the robot is allowed during any Challenge. Telemetry FROM the robot is allowed.

==Safety==

The judges may stop any robot at any time if they feel that it is performing, or is about to perform, any action that is dangerous or hazardous to people or equipment. No robot is allowed to use any flammable, combustible, explosive or potentially dangerous processes. Robots can not use projectiles or launch or throw any material even if tethered.