#summary iARoC Summary of Missions and Scoring per Mission
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements
= Introduction =

The following is quoted from http://iaroc.org/rules/.

= Details =

==Overview of missions==
It is the future.  The first manned mission to Mars is getting underway, and you have work to do.  You and your team of NASA roboticists have been given the job of designing, building, programming, and running a robot to perform 3 vital missions for your Martian colony.

===Recover Data===
A rover was sent ahead to scout the entire area and gather data for the colonists.  However, it went missing before it could send its data back to Earth. The rover’s last known position is marked “2″ on the map. Your robot’s first mission is to travel through the Valles Marineris from “1″ to the rover’s last known position as quickly as possible and attempt to recover the valuable data. To make sure your robot doesn’t get stuck, you should probably try to stay in the middle of the valley and away from the rough terrain at the edges.

===Survey Route===
Your colony’s site is on a plateau above the Valles Marineris, marked by “S” on the map. But the resources your colony needs are located in the plain beyond plateau, marked “F” on the map. And the plateau is covered in dangerous fissures and cracks. Your robot needs to survey this plateau square by square and discover the shortest safe route across from your colony to the mineral exploration area beyond. This is your robot’s most important mission.

===Claim Mineral Resources===
There are valuable mineral resources located in the craters marked “A”, “B”, and “C”.  However, there are other teams attempting to colonize Mars.  To make things fair for everybody, an international agreement has been reached that will allow each team to use their own autonomous robot to attempt to claim one of the craters for their team.  All of the robots will start somewhere on the zig-zag line.  None of the robots are allowed to have maps of the terrain inside the blue lines, so each robot will have to figure it out as it goes.  Your robot needs to be the first to enter one of the craters and claim it for your colony.

<a href="http://iaroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/rules-01.jpg"> http://iaroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/rules-01.jpg</a>
_Click for full size_

Your robot isn’t the only one with missions to perform; your team also has 2 missions it needs to perform.

===Technical Briefing===
Your team must brief the Senior Mission Commanders, who are staying on Earth, about the programming, design, and construction of your team’s robot.  They need to understand your robot’s capabilities, the programming techniques you used, and your team’s strategies to accomplish the 3 robotic missions.

===Public Relations===
You are famous astronauts on the most important mission in the history of mankind, colonizing Mars!  The public is intensely curious about the mission, about your robot, and about your team.  As part of your mission duties, your team will spend some time talking to the people back home, answering questions and inspiring the next generation of astronauts!

<a href="http://iaroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/rules-02.jpg">http://iaroc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/rules-02.jpg</a>
_Click for full size_

==Scoring==
Winners will be determined based upon the points earned for each mission. Each team will only get one score per mission.

||Mission||1st place||2nd place||3rd place||Completion||Participation||Time Limit||
||Recover Data||500||400||300||200||100||1 run 5 + 5 minutes||
||Survey Route||3000||2000||1000||450||100||20 minutes||
||Claim Mineral Resources||400||300||200||N/A||100||20 minutes||
||Technical Briefing||2000||1500||1000||See detailed rules||500||15 + 5 minutes||
||Public Relations||N/A||N/A||N/A||N/A||250||30 minutes||

For full detailed rules, please see [iARoCDetailedMissionRules].

All rules are subject to change. I will try and check for any changes in a timely manner and document them here. If you have any questions or would like to report changes, please post a comment. Alternatively, feel free to edit this page if you see any changes.